# DnD_Monster_Maker
Practicing JavaScript Objects and Classes using DnD as a framework

So this is slightly over-engineered because theoretically it could be extended a lot. The basic intention is to quickly create 'lesser' foes in DnD games on the fly. Given a name and a race it will return a brief bio, hitpoints and a random backstory.
The intention is so DMs can really dive into the history of the small creatures in the world that are normally thoughtlessly killed by players.

To store the made monsters, we have a class Monsters. This has the basic building blocks of DnD monters, race, type, size and alignment. There are also some methods we'll be calling for our output later.

Individual races of monster are children of Monsters. This allows me to assign the standard elements of each race, but also use randomness on some of the elements that vary between individuals (objects) of that Race.
To explain, all orcs are humaniod, but each individual orc can have different hitpoints (because they're generated by dicerolls) and backstory.

Backstory is handled on another module because it's a bit large, but also could do with being maintained and tweaked seperately. So long as it always returns a backstory the method for generating one isn't important to the main app.
How I have created it is a lot of string interpolation, randomly selecting elements from arrays and carefully wording said arrays to make sure they all flow togther. There are some fun little functions that check for vowels and assign the correct 'a' or 'an' to make sure grammar is correct.

Hit points is a function that models the DnD method for creating hit points with the minimum arguments I could manage. It takes the number of dice, how large those dice are and any modifiers. 
An Adult Red Dragon for example has 19d12+133 hit points. This would be hitpoints(19,12,133) in this application. Hit points also has diceroll as a helper function just to make it easier to read.

Each monster race has it's own subclass of the  monster class and it's own factory function.

The main engine of the application is the event listener on the button. It quickly checks a name has been entered, putting a prompt into the box if not. It then sets the global variables of MonsterName and MonsterType depending on the user inputs.
It then invokes outputBio which uses a switch to call the correct factory function based on the user's race selection. This assigns the bio method to the output part of the window.
Bio() pulls all the information generated by the factory function and outputs it as readable text for the user.

The event listener also adds a dice icon next to the button, when clicked this dice will 'reroll' the bio while keeping the user's selected race and name (because the main varibles aren't changed.
